sometimes we're working on like
aerospace projects that require a very
tight controlled way of working but then
when we're working on artistic projects
it requires a very fluid way of thinking
that's one of the great things about
Telecom it allows me to think as a
craftsman I was very interested in being
able to take craft back into the the
process and architectural fabrication
and the robot assist with a lot of
different operations that would require
vast amounts of labor a lot of our
processes are based from hand creation
based on very old techniques like the
ability to manipulate materials by hand
and knowing what that feedback comes
from material and power mill allows us
to work in a way that's similar to that
this is a project that we're working on
a direct mold for an electric bus we
didn't undercut spray and composite on
top of the foam using the robot and then
right now we're in the process of doing
the roughing and the finish cuts with
the robot milling you really want to be
able to control every axis and that's
one of the great things that power mill
and the PRI interface allows me to do I
can position and get the robot exactly
where I want to and then proceed to
running the simulation of the toolpath
I looked at other packages that you
would have to export your tooling file
and then you would have to run a
simulation now I can do everything in
one package we do milling but we also do
spraying wire cutting other operations
that need vector control because of
these controls I'm able to use it for
applications that aren't point dependent
I was using surf cam at one time then
when I started the process of
integrating the robot I looked at
unigraphics
other packages just couldn't manipulate
that data and machine and program in an
efficient manner basically we went from
trying to program something that would
take a day just a program to being able
to do it in five minutes so the
improvements were substantial I have
assurance that what I see here is
exactly what I'm getting on the shop
floor after I've checked for
interferences and collisions in the
programming the robotic interface then I
can allow the robot to run overnight
unattended because it's very to of it's
very easy to use I'm able to get on the
shop floor more and insert my hand and
the whole process of everything we do it
allows more of a craftsman sort of
spirit to come into the machining
process with Dell cam its Parr mill and
PRI bounce between movie props artistic
projects where it's about the vision and
it's about hand craft to aerospace or
more mechanical parts where it's about
tight tolerances and performance every
instance that I had with Dell cam has
been how can our product work for you
it sounds can but it is really a partner